it's late afternoon and once again he's
on the trail of the fabled bull sharks
at last but what will this quarter-ton
tough guy make of our fiberglass weakly
the bull sharks seem unmoved by our
spies presence again bats they're not
fooled in any case they're just about to
get their daily feed that's why they've
gathered in the shallows
Gary and concern has been feeding bull
sharks for more than 10 years he knows
them individually believes they have
their own personalities and that they
recognize him too it's a unique chance
to study bull shark intelligence and try
to unravel what triggers the rare
attacks of hormones it looks like
roboshark is in for a rough ride
winded roboshark calls timeout
Mima shark scientist Erik Ritter enters
the water to put his theories to the
test and it believes attacks on humans
are more likely to be accidental or
warning than predatory the Sharks
behavior here seems to support his case
even with food just centimetres from his
feet they don't attack and it believes
this is because they usually need three
cues to prompt the bite the right smell
sight and sound
despite being surrounded by the smell of
food and it doesn't look or sound like a
good meal in fact he seems to be more in
the way than anything
Elly is so confident sharks won't bite
he ups the stakes by producing Factor -
sound - rental we generate a
low-frequency noise similar to a
struggling fish that might when sharks
appetite but and it is still confident
because the third factor the water
visibility is good
if this was murky water a flash of his
white leg might look like a fish
underbelly and cause an attack
any has been doing this for 12 years and
was bitten for the first time just last
year when swimming in murky water but it
does seem in general that these sharks
are smart enough to be cautious of our
strange form and can distinguish us from
natural prey